Adverbs of Purpose
Adverbs are a part of speech which describe, modify and give more information about verbs, adjectives or adverbs themselves.  Adverbs of Purpose are a type among four types of Adverbs.
Adverbs of Purpose also known as Adverbs of reasons are words those express the reason or an aim (target) of an action. Adverbs of purpose may be in the form of an individual word or in the form of clauses (group of words). There are very few Adverbs of Purpose.
Some of the Adverbs of Purpose are as follows:
Therefore
Hence
so that
consequently
in order to
since
thus
lest
Many Adverbs of purpose are introduced by subordinate conjunctions. Subordinate conjunctions are parts of speech which join dependent clause with independent clause. For Example: as, whenever, when, that etc.
Since we have very limited Adverbs of Purpose, let us understand some of them clearly with the help of their meaning and examples.
Therefore
Therefore means referring to something previously mentioned.
Examples:
He therefore joined army to serve his country and its people.
The children are curious in magic thereforeare able to concentrate for so long.
Hence
Hence means from this point in time or from this place.
Examples:
The old professor was hence respected by even naughty and mischievous students.
Charlie was hence recruited in the factory again for his bravery act.
So that
So that means in order that.
Examples:
The hardworking lady didn’t go to work so thatshe could look after her small ill child.
Church was opened twenty four hours so thathomeless people could take shelter in freezing cold.
Consequently
Consequently means as a result.
Examples:
They get paid consequently of their hard work.
The robber got punished consequently because of his numerous crime.
In order to
In order to means so that.
Examples:
Concentrate and study in order to memorize important points.
Help poor and needy in order to serve God.
Since
Since means a time from certain fixed time in the past. It is also used in place of "because".
Examples:
Since it is snowing, I am feeling very cold.
Since you are not paying attention to what I am teaching, get out of my class.
Thus
Thus means as a result.
Examples:
He thus complained to police about his noisy neighbors gathering little courage.
The kind teacher thus corrected her students gently.
Lest
Lest means in case.
Examples:
We won’t make any noise, lest teacher gets angry.
Speak clearly and slowly lest they don’t understand what you are saying.
Always Remember
'So that' is a common Adverb of Purpose. We can drop that in 'so that' if we find it too long. However, use of only 'so' is often regarded as informal.
You should work in the kitchen so that you can learn to cook.
You should work in the kitchen so you can learn to cook.(correct but less formal)
