Adjective prepositions combinations
Grammar explanation
Some adjectives go with certain prepositions. There are no grammatical rules for which preposition is used with which adjective, so it's a good idea to try to learn them together. To help you do this, write new vocabulary in your notebook in a sentence or phrase.
However, there are some patterns that can help you. Let's look at them first. Remember that a preposition is followed by a noun or a gerund (-ing form).
With at
We use at with adjectives like good/bad/amazing/brilliant/terrible, etc. to talk about skills and abilities.
He's really good at English.
She's amazing at the piano.
They're terrible at organising anything.
I'm not very good at drawing.
With about
We often use about with adjectives of feelings like angry/excited/happy/nervous/sad/stressed/worried, etc. to explain what is causing that feeling.
I'm angry about the decision.
He's nervous about the presentation.
She's excited about the new job.
They were worried about the exam.
With of
However, sometimes we use of with feelings.
She was afraid of telling her mum.
I'm frightened of having an accident.
He's scared of flying.
You should be proud of your progress.
With to
We can use to to show the connection between people or things.
He's married to the director.
I'm addicted to my phone.
I'm allergic to nuts.
It's similar to the old one.
We can also use to to talk about someone's behaviour towards someone else.
They were really friendly to me.
Was he nice to you?
He is always polite to everyone.
She was very rude to the waitress.
Here are some other useful adjectives with prepositions.
With for
Exercise is good for you.
Stress is bad for you.
The town is famous for its cheese.
I'm responsible for the financial side of the business.
With in
She's interested in the project.
They want someone who's experienced in design.
I didn't want to get involved in the argument.




Of
Use the following adjectives followed by 'of.' Each group of adjectives has the same or related meanings. Use the verb 'to be' with these expressions.
Nice/kind/good/generous of someone (to do something)—Example: It was very nice of him to buy me a present.
Mean of someone (to do something)—Example:It was very mean of Susan to say that to Tom.
Stupid/silly of someone (to do something)—Example: I'm afraid it was stupid of me to come.
Intelligent/clever/sensible of someone (to do something)—Example: That was quite sensible of Tom.
Polite of someone (to do something)—Example:It was very polite of Peter to invite my sister to the party.
Impolite/rude of someone (to do something)—Example: I can't believe how rude it was of Jack to shout at his daughter in front of all those people.
Unreasonable of someone (to do something)—Example: Don't be so hard on yourself! It's unreasonable of you to expect to understand everything immediately.
Proud of something or someone—Example: I'm very proud of my daughter's wonderful progress in school.
Ashamed of someone or something—Example: She's ashamed of her bad grades.
Jealous/envious of someone or something—Example: She's really envious of her sister's wealth.
Aware/conscious of something—Example: Teens are often overly conscious of skin blemishes.
Capable/incapable of something—Example: Peter is quite capable of conducting the meeting on his own.
Fond of someone or something—Example: She is so fond of her niece.
Short of something—Example: I'm afraid I'm short of cash tonight.
Tired of something—Example: I'm tired of your complaining!
On
Use the following adjective followed by 'on.' Use the verb 'to be' with these expressions.
To be keen on something—Example: She is very keen on horses.
To
Use the following adjectives followed by 'to.' Each group of adjectives has the same or related meanings. Use the verb 'to be' with these expressions.
Married/engaged to someone—Example: Jack is engaged to Jill.
Nice/kind/good/generous to someone—Example: She was very generous to me when I was staying with her.
Mean/impolite/rude/unpleasant/unfriendly/cruel to someone—Example: How can you be so unfriendly to your neighbors?
similar to something—Example: His painting is similar to Van Gough.
With
Use the following adjectives followed by 'with.' Each group of adjectives has the same or related meanings. Use the verb 'to be' with these expressions.
Angry/annoyed/furious with someone for something—Example: I'm furious with my brother for having lied to me!
Delighted/pleased/satisfied with something—Example: He is quite satisfied with his results.
Disappointed with something—Example: She's really disappointed with her new car.
Bored/fed up with something—Example: Let's go. I'm fed up with this party.
Crowded with (people, tourists, etc.)—Example: Disneyland is crowded with tourists in July.
