

The Difference Between Among and Amongst
Among and amongst are both prepositions, meaning in the midst of, surrounded by, in the company of, or in association with. For example,
A Northeasterner amongst Southerners.
I found myself among the wealthy.
There was a group of tourists amongst my group in the museum.
Don’t worry; you’re among friends!
They are always fighting amongst themselves.
So you’re now probably asking yourself, “Okay, when do I know which one to use?”
The answer to this is that there is no demonstrable difference of sense or function between the two words. This means they can both be used interchangeably; it really is a matter of style for when you choose to use one over the other.
Even though it is a matter of style, it is still important to keep your audience in mind when picking which word to use. For example, if you are writing a sophisticated novel, using amongst might be appropriate because it adds a sense of unique dialogue or conversation. But, if you are writing for everyday consumption in a newspaper or a similar outlet, among is definitely the right choice for you.
Some grammar books state that it is more common to use amongst before a word starting with a vowel. For example,
Amongst other things, we will finish the house.
This view, although still favored by some, is not supported by current usage trends.
Which is More Common?
Out of the two words, among is much more commonly used in modern English, being used at a ratio of 10:1 by some estimates. In British English, amongst is used somewhat more frequently than in American English, but even in Great Britain among is the favored variant.


Between is typically used when referring to two things, like "between a rock and a hard place," while among is used for a greater number. However, these rules should be reconsidered if the sentence sounds awkward or overly pretentious. Likewise amongst can be used in some rare instances in place of 'among,' but should not be used to make sentences sound more educated.
If you're at all interested in grammar, then you've probably heard the maxim about among and between: only use between when you're referring to two things ("just between us," "between a rock and a hard place," "you must choose between cake or death"), and use among when referring to more than two ("you're among friends," "among the many options available to you"). But like many maxims about grammar and usage, this isn't necessarily the case
