In the Future Continuous tense, we usually use the Present Participle form with ING. In Future continuous we use the helping verbs such as 'will be' and 'shall be' but after converting Future Continuous tense to passive voice the helping verbs 'will be' and 'shall be' will become 'will be being' and 'shall be being'.
The Following are some of the key changes which will take place during converting Future continuous tense to Passive voice.


1.	Will be being/shall be being will use as the Helping verb.
2.	Past Participle will take place.
3.	Shall be Being will take place with the Pronouns such as 'I' and 'We'.
4.	Will Be Being will take Place with the rest of Pronouns.
5.	The word By will Use/come just before the object.
6.	Being will use after the 'will not be' in the negative sentences.


For Example:
Active Voice: He will be Uploading the latest Funny video to the YouTube.
Passive Voice: Latest Funny Videos will be being uploaded to the YouTube by him.

Active voice: She will be raising the Pro-Public slogans.
Passive Voice: The Pro-Public slogans will be being  raised by her.

Active Voice: They Birds will be singing the Songs.
Passive Voice: The Songs will be being sung by the Birds.

Active Voice:  we shall be playing the cards.
Passive Voice: The cards shall be being played by us.

Active Voice: He will be updating the Facebook status.
Passive Voice: The Facebook status will be being updated by him.


Negative Sentences: 
The Word Being will be used after the will not be whenever we convert the Future continuous negative sentences to Passive Voice. The Sentence will look like this (Subject + Will not be + being + v-3 + object).
For Example:
Active Voice: The Students will not be learning the Future continuous Passive voice.
Passive Voice: The Future Continuous passive voice will not be being learned by the students.

Active Voice: The Pilots will not be flying the jets.
Passive Voice: The Jets will not be being Flown by the pilots.

Active Voice: The Passengers will not be eating the Rice.
Passive Voice: The Rice will not be being eaten by the Passengers.

Active Voice: The Girls will not be watching the Squash match.
Passive Voice: The Squash match will not be being watched by the girls.

Active Voice: The Baby will not be playing with the cricket ball.
Passive Voice: The Cricket ball will not be being played by the Baby.