Uncountable Nouns
Unlike countable nouns, uncountable nouns are substances, concepts etc that we cannot divide into separate elements. We cannot "count" them. For example, we cannot count "milk". We can count "bottles of milk" or "litres of milk", but we cannot count "milk" itself. Here are some more uncountable nouns:
music, art, love, happiness
advice, information, news
furniture, luggage
rice, sugar, butter, water
electricity, gas, power
money, currency
We usually treat uncountable nouns as singular. We use a singular verb. For example:
This news is very important.
Your luggage looks heavy.
We do not usually use the indefinite article a/an with uncountable nouns. We cannot say "an information" or "a music". But we can say a "something" of:
a piece of news
a bottle of water
a grain of rice
We can use some and any with uncountable nouns:
I've got some money.
Have you got any rice?
We can use a little and much with uncountable nouns:
I've got a little money.
I haven't got much rice.
Uncountable nouns are also called "mass nouns".
Here are some more examples of countable and uncountable nouns:
Countable	Uncountable
dollar	money
song	music
suitcase	luggage
table	furniture
battery	electricity
bottle	wine
report	information
tip	advice
journey	travel
job	work
view	scenery
When you learn a new word, it's a good idea to learn whether it's countable or uncountable.
Partitive Structure with Uncountable Nouns
To count or quantify an uncountable noun we use a unit of measurement - a measure word. For example, we cannot usually say “two breads” because “bread” is uncountable. So, if we want to specify a quantity of bread we use a measure word such as “loaf” or “slice” in a structure like “two loaves of bread” or “two slices of bread”. We call this structure a partitive structure.
partitive structure:	quantity	measure word	of	uncountable noun
examples:	two	cups	of	coffee
 	several	games	of	tennis
 	a	drop	of	water
We can use the same uncountable noun in different partitive expressions with different meanings. For example, a loaf of bread and a slice of bread are partitive expressions with different meanings. A loaf of bread is what we call a whole unit of bread that we buy from a baker. A slice of bread is what we call a smaller unit of bread after it has been cut from a loaf. 
Here are some more examples:
Don't forget to buy a bag of rice when you go shopping.
Can I have one cup of coffee and two cups of tea.
The police found some items of clothingscattered around the floor.
I need a truck that will take at least three pieces of furniture.
You'd think a tablespoon of honey would be more than enough.
The word "partitive" indicates that only "part" of a whole is being referred to. The partitive structure using a measure word is common with uncountable nouns, but it can also be used with countable nouns, for example: a series of accidents, two boxes of matches, a can of worms.

Measure Words with Uncountable Nouns
This list shows some common measure words like "a bar of" or "a piece of" that we use to "measure" uncountable nouns.
a bag of flour | rice | gold dust
a bar of chocolate | gold | soap
a bottle of Coke | milk | water | wine
a bowl of cereal | rice | soup
a box of cereal | paper
a can of cream | meat | tuna
a carton of ice-cream | orange juice | milk
a cup of hot chocolate | coffee | tea
a drop of blood | oil | water
a glass of beer | juice | water | wine
a grain of rice | sand | truth
an item of clothing | expenditure | news
a jar of honey | jam | peanut butter
a piece of advice | furniture | paper
a roll of paper | tape | toilet paper | Scotch tape
a slice of bread | cheese | meat | toast
a spoonful of sugar | syrup | whisky
a tablespoon of butter | honey | ketchup
a teaspoon of cinnamon | medicine | salt
a tube of glue | lipstick | toothpaste
Measure words are common with uncountable nouns, but some of them can also be used with countable nouns, for example: two boxes of matches, a can of worms
Partitive Expressions with Uncountable Nouns
This is a list of one hundred partitive expressions containing a partitive + uncountable noun, each with an example sentence. The expressions are in alphabetical order based on the uncountable noun.
See also: the grammar of partitives and uncountable nouns
partitive expression	example sentence
a torrent of abuse	The manager was so angry that he let loose a torrent of abuse at his workers.
a piece of advice	Can I offer you a piece of advice about investing your savings?
a fit of anger	Harry slapped his girlfriend in a fit of anger.
a work of art	Everyone says her garden’s a work of art, it’s so beautiful.
a rasher of bacon	How many rashers of bacon would you like with your breakfast?
a glass of beer	The police wanted to know how many glasses of beer he had drunk.
a drop of blood	There were two or three drops of blood on the carpet.
a spot of bother	I’m in a spot of bother because I can’t find my car keys, and I’m already late.
a loaf of bread	How much does a loaf of bread cost in Japan?
a pat of butter	Could I have three pats of butter and some jam, please?
a game of chess	We played three games of chess, and Bobby won all of them.
a bar of chocolate	If you’re a good boy, I’ll give you a bar of chocolate.
an item of clothing	Put any items of clothing you no longer need into this box.
a lump of coal	The kids found some lumps of coal beside the railway tracks, and took them home.
a cup of coffee	The first thing I do when I get to work is have a cup of coffee.
an ear of corn	Ears of corn are usually steamed or boiled and then served with butter.
a scrap of difference	Writing letters to corrupt politicians won’t make a scrap of difference to the way they behave.
a speck of dust	They have no kids, and you won't find a speck of dust in their home.
a scrap of evidence	There wasn’t a scrap of evidence to prove he’d done it, but he was still sent to jail for life.
an item of expenditure	You must have a receipt for every item of expenditure you want to claim.
an article of faith	Freedom of expression is an article of faith among truly democratic people.
a morsel of food	There wasn’t a morsel of food left in the house, so we had to go out for dinner.
a breath of fresh air	The room was crowded and I felt faint so I went outside for a breath of fresh air.
a piece of fruit	Everyone should eat at least three pieces of fruit a day.
a bit of fun	After working hard all day, we felt like having a bit of fun.
a piece of furniture	We need a piece of furniture that will look good in that empty corner.
a clove of garlic	Take two cloves of garlic, crush them, and then add them to the soup.
a pane of glass	You have to be very careful when transporting panes of glass.
a blade of grass	The ant walked all the way up the blade of grass, and then all the way down again.
a pang of guilt	When I saw my brother being punished for what I’d done, I felt a pang of guilt.
a lock of hair	He kept a lock of her hair in a small tin box with his other most precious possessions.
a jar of honey	She stuck her fingers into the jar of honey, and then slowly licked them clean.
a glimmer of hope	The president gave us a glimmer of hope when he promised to look into the issue.
a sense of humour	He lacks a sense of humour, and his laughter never sounds real.
a pang of hunger	I felt a pang of hunger, and knew it must be getting close to lunchtime.
a block of ice	How long do you think it’d take for this block of ice to melt?
a scoop of ice cream	You don’t really need three scoops of ice cream on your apple pie, do you?
a piece of information	There was an important piece of information missing from the report.
a plea of innocence	He maintained his plea of innocence, even though everyone said he was guilty.
a touch of irony	There was often a touch of irony in his voice when he spoke.
a jar of jam	If you leave a jar of jam open on the bench, the ants will find it.
a glass of juice	I’d like a glass of juice, but only if the juice is freshly squeezed.
an act of kindness	A simple act of kindness to a stranger is a wonderful thing.
a piece of land	My grandfather bought this piece of land over a hundred years ago.
a peal of laughter	We heard peals of laughter coming from her bedroom.
