Not only … but also
 

We use not only X but also Y in formal contexts:
The war caused not only destruction and death but alsogenerations of hatred between the two communities.
The car not only is economical but also feels good to drive.
This investigation is not only one that is continuing and worldwide but also one that we expect to continue for quite some time.
We can sometimes leave out also:
I identified with Denzel Washington not only as an actor but as a person.
To add emphasis, we can use not only at the beginning of a clause. When we do this, we invert the subject and the verb:
Not only was it raining all day at the wedding but also the band was late.
Not only will they paint the outside of the house but alsothe inside.
When there is no auxiliary verb or main verb be, we use do, does, did:
Not only did she forget my birthday, but she also didn’t even apologise for forgetting it
She not only wrote the text but also researched the photographs 
He is not only kind, but also generous.







How and when to use the “Not only…but also” construction

The construction “not only … but also …” is used to emphasise something that has more than one quality, or has done more than activity, where the final quality is especially surprising or noteworthy. It can be used to list adjective qualities, nouns or verbs, to show complimentary qualities, quantities or actions, events and states:
He is not only kind, but also generous.
The circus was comprised of not only magicians and clowns, but also many dangerous animals.
The band not only played instruments, but also danced.
When to use “not only…but also”
The “not only…but also” construction is most commonly used in formal contexts. This can be useful when presenting an argument stacking the positive or negative qualities of a character, an action or an event.
The government was not only effective in lowering taxes, but also helped to reduce unemployment through careful measures.
The riot was not only loud and violent, but also caused a huge deal of damage to the area.
The construction can list a flexible number of different qualities, objects or verbs (dealt with as a list), but the important thing to remember is that the one that follows “but also” is especially noteworthy.
 
How to form “not only…but also”
“Not only…but also” can come after the main subject and verb, splitting up a list that the main verb introduces:
I like not only strawberries but also bananas.
It can also come after an entire clause (following objects and direct objects) to describe the qualities of the main clause.
We walked through the hills not only when it was sunny, but also when it was raining.
To put extra emphasis on the comparative list, a clause can be started with “not only”, making the subject and main verb part of the list. To do this, the subject and verb (following “not only”), must be inverted. In the comparative clause, following but, also can sometimes come before the subject and verb, and sometimes after:
Not only was she smart but she was also very wealthy.
Not only was it later, but also it was raining.
 
Variations of “not only…but also”
“Also” is not always necessary, and can be either removed or (to emphasise something complimentary) replaced by “too” at the end of the second clause:
They were not only friendly, but helpful.
Skateboard tricks are not only difficult to do, but tiring too.
If the subject and verb are present in the second clause, “but” can also be removed for the same meaning, as long as “also” or “too” are used.
He not only raises dogs, he also takes care of cats.
I enjoy English because it is not only useful, it is interesting too.
The “not only…but also” construction can also be formed, with similar meaning and constructions with “not just…but also”. This is less formal:
It was not just fun, but also educational.
