A dependent, or subordinate, clause contains a subject and a verb or verb phrase but does not express a complete thought. As a result, it cannot stand alone as a sentence. Dependent clauses can function either as noun clauses, adjective clauses, or adverb clauses.
What Is a Noun Clause?
A noun clause is a dependent clause that acts as a noun. Noun clauses begin with words such as how, that, what, whatever, when, where, whether, which, whichever, who, whoever, whom, whomever, and why. Noun clauses can act as subjects, direct objects, indirect objects, predicate nominatives, or objects of a preposition.
Noun Clause ExamplesImage
( Whoever thought of that idea is a noun clause. It contains the subject whoever and the verb thought. The clause acts as a subject in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #1) The focus of our work is how we can satisfy customers most effectively.
( How we can satisfy customers most effectively is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb phrase can satisfy. The clause acts as a predicate nominative in the sentence, identifying focus.)
Noun Clause Examples #2) Choose a gift for whomever you want.
( Whomever you want is a noun clause. It contains the subject you and the verb want. The clause acts as an object of the preposition for in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #3) Whichever restaurant you pickis fine with me.
( Whichever restaurant you pick is a noun clause. It contains the subject you and the verb pick. The clause acts as a subject in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #4) Be sure to send whoever interviewed you a thank-you note.
( Whoever interviewed you is a noun clause. It contains the subject whoever and the verb interviewed. The clause acts as an indirect object in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #5) Do you know what the weather will be?
( What the weather will be is a noun clause. It contains the subject weather and the verb phrase will be. The clause acts as a direct object in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #7) My greatest asset is that I am a hard worker.
( That I am a hard worker is a noun clause. It contains the subject I and the verb am. The clause acts as a predicate nominative in the sentence, identifying asset.)
Noun Clause Examples #8) It’s important to think aboutwhy we make certain decisions.
( Why we make certain decisions is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb make. The clause acts as an object of the preposition about in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #9) I wonder how long we should wait here.
( How long we should wait here is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb phrase should wait. The clause acts as a direct object in the sentence.)
Noun Clause Examples #10) Always give whichever audience you perform for a great show.
( Whichever audience you perform for is a noun clause. It contains the subject you and the verb perform. The clause acts as an indirect object in the sentence.)
Image
( Whatever we want is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb want. The clause acts as a direct object in the sentence.)
I’m packing extra snacks for when we get hungry.
( When we get hungry is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb get. The clause acts as an object of the preposition for in the sentence.)
