
When to Use Of vs. Off?
Of is a preposition that indicates relationships between other words, such as belonging, things made of other things, things that contain other things, or a point of reckoning.
Off is usually used as an adverb or a preposition. In both cases, it indicates separation or disconnection.
Mixing them up is always a mistake, but of and off are commonly confused nonetheless. Below, we’ve listed some common situations where you want to use ofand some where off is the correct choice.
When to Use Of
We use of when we want to show that people or things relate to other things or people. For example, when we want to say that something or someone belongs to or is a part of something or someone else, we can do it like this:
Tiffany stared at the floor of her room.
He resigned his position as a member of the school board.

We can also use of to say that something consists of something else, or that it contains something else:
He picked up a piece of wood.
She likes to drink a glass of milk before going to bed.
When we want to give a position in space or time, we might use of to link the position with a reference we already know:
He didn’t feel at home north of the Wall.
At the time of the Viking raids, people spoke a very different kind of English.
Of could be used when we create a noun phrase from a verb phrase:
They had to clean up the house before their parents arrived .
They had to clean up the house before the arrival of their parents. .
Of (to indicate relating to, belonging to) — I always dreamed of being famous. 
Of (to indicate reference) — This is a picture of my last birthday.
Of (to specify the number or an amount) — A good number of people understand Hindi

Many learners find it difficult to know when to use ‘of’ and when to use ‘from’ in English.
Very often this comes from the fact that in a number of languages the same preposition
is used for both 'of’ and ‘from’. 
The clarifications below are intended to serve as a guide for English learners.
  OF   
‘Of’ for possession :

To denote possession, the apostrophe followed by s ('s), (for example: Tom's), is used
for living things or groups and institutions. 
Tom's house.
The dog's tail.
The government's policy.

‘Of’ is used when referring to inanimate objects, to mean that something belongs to something else.
The roof of the car.
The title of the book.
The name of the game.
'Of' is used in certain expressions such as :
It is nice (good /kind /generous /silly /stupid etc.)of (somebody) to do (something).
- It was nice of you to invite me.
- It was generous of Tom to pay for lunch.
- It was stupid of Sam to leave the window open.
‘Of’ is used after adjectives :
There is no real pattern – you need to learn them as you meet them. Here are some examples, but please remember that this is not a complete list :
- afraid of
- ashamed of
- aware / unaware of 
- capable of
- fond of
- proud of
- sure/certain of
- tired of 
'Of’ is used after certain verbs :
Again, this is not a complete list, but here are some examples :
- accuse (somebody) of something
- complain of
- dream of 
- hear of
- remind (somebody) of someone/something 
- think of
  FROM 
‘From’ is used to refer to origins :

'From' is used to indicate that something originates or comes from something else or 
some person. For example,
- Kate comes from England
- The passage is from a poem written by Lord Byron.
From - To / From - Until :

'From' is used with the prepositions 'to' and 'until' to mark the beginning and ending point of an action in time. For example,
- I work from 9 to 5 every day.
- We will be in London next week fromTuesday until Friday.
'From' after adjectives :

‘From’ is seldom used after adjectives but in British English we find :
- different from
‘From’ is used after certain verbs :
This is not a complete list, but here are some examples :
- borrow from
- disappear from
- discourage from
- prevent from
- protect from

When to Use Off
Off is the opposite of on:
The radio was on, but she needed peace and quiet so she turned it off .
You should always make sure the stove is turned off before leaving the house.
Off can also be used when we want to say that something is away from a place:
He was walking his dog without a leash, and the dog ran off .
After walking Taylor home, Steve set off into the city.
We can use off when we want to say that something has been removed:
He cleaned the spilled soup off the kitchen floor.
They took the wheel off the car.
Examples
My favourite film of 2016 was the spine-tingling British production Under the Shadow from Iran-born, London-based writer/director Babak Anvari.
Can the Guardians battle the bad guys while still keeping their band of ne’er-do-wells together?
The Briton could only win the title if Rosberg finished off the podium.
Sony and its partners showed off a bunch of games at yesterday’s PSX Keynote event
