

Forget
Sarah forgot travelling to London when she was a child.
When 'forget' is used with a gerund, it means 'forget you have done something'. The sentence means Sarah travelled to London as a child and now she forgot/can't remember this.
Sarah forgot to pay her phone bill.
When 'forget' is used with an infinitive it means that she should have paid the bill but she didn't remember to do so.
Keep
Danny kept talking.
'Keep' is normally used with a gerund to mean that the action is continued.
My neighbours kept a hunting dog to scare off intruders.
When 'keep' is used with an infinitive it normally means 'in order to'.
 
Need
The house needs cleaning.
When need is used with a gerund it takes a passive meaning.
He needs to call his parents.
In this sentence 'needs' means it is necessary.
Regret
I regretted being late to the interview.
'Regret' is normally used with a gerund.
We regret to inform you that your position at the company is being eliminated.
'Regret' is sometimes used with phrases such as 'to inform'. The meaning is 'we are sorry to inform'.
Remember
I remember meeting him last year.
With a gerund 'remember' means 'recall' from your memories.
He remembered to call his parents on their anniversary. 
When 'remember' is used with an infinitive it means 'to remember to do something' or 'not to forget'.
 
Start
Marc started talking really fast.
'Start' is normally used with a gerund.
Marc started to talk really fast.
With an infinitive 'start' can mean the action was not completed.
Marge started to talk really fast.
Stop
His doctor told him to stop smoking.
'Stop' is normally used with a gerund. It shows that an action ended.
He stopped (what he was doing) to smoke a cigarette.
'Stop' is used with an infinitive to mean that an action was stopped in order to do something else.      
Try
I tried learning Japanese but it was too difficult.
'try' with a gerund means to experiment.
I tried to speak Japanese but I couldn't remember anything from my lessons.
'Try' with an infinitive means you did not succeed.
