
Reported Speech: orders, requests & suggestions
Reporting orders and requests
When we want to report an order or request, we can use a verb like 'tell' with a to-clause: He told me to go away. The pattern is verb + indirect object + to-clause. The indirect object is the person spoken to. Other verbs used to report orders and requests in this way are: command, order, warn, ask, advise, invite, beg, teach, & forbid.
Examples
Direct speech	Indirect speech
The doctor said to me, "Stop smoking!".	The doctor told me to stop smoking.
"Get out of the car!" said the policeman.	The policeman ordered him to get out of the car.
"Could you please be quiet," she said.	She asked me to be quiet.
The man with the gun said to us, "Don't move!"	The man with the gun warned us not to move.
Requests for objects
Requests for objects are reported using the pattern "asked for" + object.
Examples
Direct speech	Indirect speech
"Can I have an apple?", she asked.	She asked for an apple.
"Can I have the newspaper, please?"	He asked for the newspaper.
"May I have a glass of water?" he said.	He asked for a glass of water.
"Sugar, please."	She asked for the sugar.
"Could I have three kilos of onions?"	He asked for three kilos of onions.
Suggestions
Suggestions are most often reported using the verbs suggest, insist, recommend, demand, request, and propose followed by a that clause. 'That' and 'should' are optional in these clauses, as shown in the first two examples below. Note that suggest, recommend, and propose may also be followed by a gerund in order to eliminate the indirect object (the receiver of the suggestion) and thus make the suggestion more polite. This usage of the gerund is illustrated in the fourth and fifth examples below.
Examples
Direct speech	Indirect speech
She said, "Why don't you get a mechanic to look at the car?"	She suggested that I should get a mechanic to look at the car. OR
She suggested I should get a mechanic to look at the car. OR
She suggested that I get a mechanic to look at the car.OR
She suggested I get a mechanic to look at the car.
"Why don't you go to the doctor?" he said.	He suggested I go to the doctor. OR
He suggested that I go to the doctor. OR
He suggested I should go to the doctor.OR
He suggested that I should goto the doctor.
"It would be a good idea to see the dentist", said my mother.	My mother suggested I seethe dentist.
The dentist said, "I think you should use a different toothbrush".	The dentist recommended using a different toothbrush.
You said, "I don't think you have time to see the dentist this week."	You suggested postponingmy visit to the dentist.
I said, "I don't think you should see the dentist this week."	I suggested postponing your visit to the dentist.
My manager said, "I think we should examine the budget carefully at this meeting."	My manager proposed that we examine the budget carefully at the meeting.
"Why don't you sleep overnight at my house?" she said.	She suggested that I sleepovernight at her house.


















Orders
An order is when somebody tells you to do something.
We can use ‘tell’ with infinitives to report orders:
Jim’s mum: Wash your hands! Dinner’s ready!
She told him to wash his hands.
Jim’s mum: Don’t touch that pan – it’s hot!
She told him not to touch the pan.
The structure here is:
tell + someone + (not) to do something
The most common verb for reporting an order is ‘tell‘, but we can also use other verbs such as: order, command, instruct:
The sergeant commanded his men to stand straight.
The manager instructed his team to follow the guidelines.





Requests
A request is when somebody asks you to do something – usually politely. We can use ‘ask’ with infinitives to report requests:
Jim’s mum: Can you wash your hands? Dinner’s ready!
She asked him to wash his hands.
Jim’s mum: Don’t touch that pan – it’s hot!
She asked him not to touch the pan.
The structure here is:
ask + someone + (not) to do something
Requests for objects
When we want that somebody gives us something, we can ‘ask for‘ it:
Jim: Mum, can I have some bread?
Jim asked her for some bread


Jim’s sister: Could I have a glass of water?
Jim’s sister asked for a glass of water.
The structure here is:
ask (someone) for + object





Other reporting verbs
We can also use a lot of other verbs in reported speech. 
We can use the verbs ‘suggest’, ‘insist’, ‘recommend’, ‘demand’, ‘request‘, and ‘propose‘ to report advice and suggestions. Some of them follow the same pattern:
She ordered him to wash his hands.
She advised him to wash his hands.
She ordered him not to touch the pan.
She advised him not to touch the pan.
For example, we can transform the following direct speech sentences into reported speech:
Come on. Eat your vegetables. They’re good for you!
She persuaded him to eat his vegetables.
Remember to wash the dishes.
She reminded him to wash the dishes.
Don’t forget!
She warned him not to forget.
Sometimes the pattern is different:
OK, Mum. I’ll wash the dishes.
He promised to wash the dishes.
NOT: He promised her to wash the dishes.
Why don’t you watch TV?
He suggested (that) she should watch TV.
He suggested (that) she watch TV.
‘That’ and ‘should’ are optional in these clauses.
Note that ‘suggest‘, ‘recommend‘, and ‘propose‘ may also be followed by a gerund.
You can also say:
He suggested watching TV.
NOT: He suggested her to watch TV.
NOT: He suggested to watch TV.
Because we use the infinitive, there is no need to worry about tense. But as with reported statements and reported questions, we may need to change pronouns as well as time and place in reported requests.
Consider the example:
They said to the architect: “We’d like you to meet us here tomorrow.”
They asked the architect to meet them there the next day.
